---
title: Federal Learning with Statistical Heterogeneous
categories: 机器学习
tags: [联邦学习]
date: 2021-05-05 20:30:00
---

## What is Federal Learning?

The amount of mobile phones, wearable devices, and autonomous vehicles are increasing day by day, which are compiled into several distributed networks.

Standing in front of the scene of improving device/user's experience by establishing some models, how to use these distributed networks is a challenge but interesting field.

<!--more-->

- With these distributed networks' computational power, it's natural to get the idea, how to make full use of the computational power. 

- And with the storage and rich sensors on each devices (such as cameras, microphones, and GPS), it's easier to access to large amount of data, most of them are private in nature. So the idea of us is also nature, how to make full use of the data, meanwhile protecting users' privacy.

Facing above questions, a natural idea is to store data locally and push the computation from the center server to the whole network's edge device. This method is called "Federal Learning". The term of "Federal Learning" was first proposed by McMahan (2017), that,

> The learning task is solved by a loose federation of participating devices (which we refer to as clients) which are coordinated by a central server.

The application of federal learning are various, such as

- 

In summary, the federal learning problem can be formulated as  the following procedures:

1. Initialization:
2. Client Selection:
3. Configuration:
4. Reporting:
5. Termination:

And, the global objective function for federal learning are as followed,
$$
\min_{w}F(w),\quad\text{where}\quad F(w):=\sum_{k=1}^{m}\rho_{k}F_{k}(w),
$$

where, $m$ is the total number of selected devices, $\rho_{k}\geq 0$ and $\sum_{k=1}^{m}\rho_{k}=1$, and $F_{k}$ is the local objective function for the $k$-th device.

The challenge of federal learning are also various, such as communication efficiency, systems heterogeneity, statistical heterogeneity, and privacy.

Here we focus on the topic of statistical heterogeneity. In the application scenario of federated learning, the data on each device is independently generated by the device/user, so the local data set of any specific device/user cannot represent the overall distribution. Therefore, for federated learning, a core challenge is "how to face non-independent and identically distributed data from different devices/users?". This challenge includes not only how to model based on non-independent and identically distributed data, but also the convergence of the model for non-independent and identically distributed data.

In this paper we will focus on the paper which has been mentioned in (Li, 2020), and explore their methods advantage and disadvantages and so on.

## The Methods to Handle Non-IID Data

First of all, we will introduce the symbols  for the below federal learning methods.

Suppose there is a fixed set of $K$ nodes in the distributed networks, and node $k$ in the distributed networks which has a fixed local dataset $X_{k}$ with $n_{k}$ samples. And during the client selection and configuration procedures of the federal learning, suppose the fraction of used nodes at each iteration is $C$ , the number of federal learning rounds is $T$, and as for the local nodes update, the number of local updates is $E$,  the maximum local batch size used at each learning iteration is $B$.

###  `FedAvg` Method by McMahan (2017)

The basis method for handle Non-IID data in federal learning was proposed by McMahan (2017),  the algorithms are shown as followed,

```pseudocode
Input: Data $X_k$ from k=1,2,...,K nodes
Output: Estimated global model parmameters $w$
Initialize the global and each node's model prameters be $w_{0}$
for each round t = 1, 2, ..., T do
	let $S_{t}$ be the random selected $K\times C$ nodes set
	for each node k in seleced nodes set $S_{t}$ do
		update node k with global model parameters $w_{t-1}$,
        	local updates number $E$ and local batch size $B$
		let $w_{t}^{k}$ be the updated local model parameters
	let total sample count $n_{t}\leftarrow\sum_{k\in S_{t}}n_{k}$
	let the global model parameters $w_{t}\leftarrow\sum_{k\in S_{t}}\frac{n_{k}}{n_{t}}w_{t}^{k}$
```

Specially, another important finding in this paper, which found that we must averaging the models for different data with the same initial parameters, hence, during the reporting procedure this method enforce the each local model parameters during each round be the same.

`FedAvg` method is a version of implement of Figure 1.(a), which build an global model for each nodes in the distributed networks. This method is simple but effective, and has also been proof that, it can convergence  in the situations of IID and Non-IID by ??? (????).

- MOCHA 

- Zhao

## Recurrent Experimental Results

